So what I'd like you to do is
to actually give this a shot,
practice around using the idea of
a composable in your directory.
So basically,
I kind of wanted to outline it a bit.
You'll create a composables folder
inside of your source directory.
Look inside of your app,
see what opportunities there might be
to share some state or functionality.
Or if you don't have it, obviously, like
I did earlier, just go ahead and do so
to practice it,
practice sharing those things.
And so here I said create a file
called useState or useFunction.
Basically I know in my case I called
it countStore, which is a lead in for
something else in the future.
But generally speaking,
when you're naming your composables,
you do prefix it with that use.
So in that case, I should have probably
named it like useCountStore, for example.
And then otherwise just try stuff out.
All right, so
how that feel with the composables?
Is is that kind of a bit
weird to deal with?
I see a lot of people still typing,
so probably still tinkering away.
People in the chat, if you had any
sort of issues with those composable,
please let me know.
So I'm just gonna head and kind of walk
through a simple example for the solution,
and kind of talk through some
theoretical things while we're at it.
So let's go ahead and
switch over to C'est La Vue.
So if we look at C'est La Vue,
what do we have?
Well, we have a couple things going on.
We have a UserCard here.
It's fine, UserPage, okay.
We have some async stuff happening.
All right, well,
this is in the script setup, so
this actually might be a good one.
So let's say for instance, then,
that we want the ability to display
the users in more than one place.
Cuz the UserPage is a great place
to list it, but on the other hand,
there might be reasons actually to
display it on the homepage, for instance.
So let's just abstract that
away into a composable.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
create a new folder here for composables.
And then we're gonna create one, and
following the syntax now we're
gonna call it useUserStore.js.
And all we're gonna do here is we're
gonna do a import reactive from Vue.
And then we're going to export
a const called userList.
Although actually,
you know what I'm gonna do?
Because we're actually just
exporting the single array,
I prefer usually to use ref
when it's not an object.
So reactive is usually when I think
of like a more complex object,
that's personally kind
of where I lean towards.
So userList is a ref of an array,
that's all this is.
And so now that we have this here,
we can go inside of UserPage and
we can change this up
basically to say okay, so
I'm gonna import, From, from what?
From, go up one level,
go to composables, go to useUserStore.
And then what we're looking for
inside of here is the userList,
which is auto completed right there.
So now we can technically delete this.
And then this means we can
delete the reactive up here.
And then wherever userList is being
called, we will remove the state.
And then because we're in script setup,
remember that it's a ref.
So we just unpack it with .value.
And again, it's nice cuz
the tooling has updated now, so
that it will actually tell you
that it expected the .value.
There was a time where the tooling
hadn't caught up, and so
it was really easy to miss that on your
own if you weren't paying attention.
And so there we go,
userList is now available.
We can save and
everything should still look good.
Yeah, it looks good to me.
If we go to Home now, let's actually
show that we can do something similar.
So we'll go now over to the home page.
So homepage, and I'll just use
the script setup again up here.
And let me just actually copy that,
snip it over from up here.
So import, there we go,
userList from that.
Import userList right here.
And again, once we've imported it, the
mental model shift that you have to think
about here is that it
is already available.
So we can go ahead and
just do an li in this case.
And then v for user in userList and
then user.name.
I think that should work.
There we go, it's looking good.
And then to show you why this is
incredibly powerful is that maybe in this
specific context, this is where I want
to actually only show the first five.
And so I don't need this
to pollute the entire file.
What I can do is Is I can just import
the computed property from Vue.
And just say const shortUserList
is a computed property that
returns userList.value,
[SOUND] what was it?
Splice, let's see, yes,
splice (0, 5), I think.
I think that returns it, great.
And then we can do shortUserList here.
You'll notice, there we go.
Now we have this global piece of data that
is shared in two files, but we also have
some very specific contexts on how we
might wanna manipulate that data for
that one component.
And that in and of itself is, I think, the
power of the idea of a composition API,
in that you can really start to compose
things the way that makes sense to you.
And so the other thing about Vue 3,
which we're not gonna cover at all,
but I did wanna make a mention to it
because those coming from Vue 2 or
those looking at Vue 3 docs might
notice that mixins are a thing that
also were particularly popular
during the Vue 2 days.
And mixins what they basically
allow you to do, it was a way for
you to share functionality and
state using the options API.
Nowadays I would say the fact that
you have these composable and
reusable pieces of state and function
that's easily injectable in a very
concise way, these are basically superior
to mixins in every way, shape and form.
It's really actually hard to argue for
using mixins over the composables.
So it is valuable to spend the time to
get familiar with it, try it out, and
start figuring out where it kinda
lands in your comfort zone.
But as you can see here, there's something
really nice about being able to say okay,
yeah, I'm getting what the userList
from where there's useUserStore.
And then you just know where everything
is, everything's named correctly or
if you need to update it,
cuz there's some name clashes.
Everything is very declarative and
explicit.
So, yeah, so these are composables in a
nutshell, and that kind of puts a wrap on
the composition API section of all
the things we're talking about.